# Quite

This week was light in the amount of information I received/consumed. So, I only had a few insights
compared to what I used to have the last few weeks. It may be because I had to do more grinding work
where results are not visible, and the knowledge I have integrated into myself still needs to be in
the form I am aware of. Maybe. Even though I have spent Mon-Thu all on my own. Some of this time was
procrastination; procrastination is sometimes good and sometimes bad. But this is what I have got.

## Feelings

On Monday morning, I started doing feeling checks:

- Body: vibrating.
- Grateful (blessed and fortunate). To have time to be with myself.
- Exploring.

## Feedback

Since we are approaching the end of the year, we have time for performance evaluation in the
company.

Then, on Tuesday, I got a great reminder about feedback. I have received unexpected, great feedback
that touched me and made me appreciate and respect that person even more. It took me a few days to
realize I could return the same coin. Which I did by writing honest feedback to that person. Because
that feedback triggered other actions around me and more thoughts in my head (like this one). In
addition, I should give somebody else feedback that they do not ask, but this is much harder to do.
What if I provide them with feedback they would want to avoid reading? Hmm, intriguing situation. I
can write only full positive feedback (if this is true) to someone even if they did not ask. And if
I knew there would be some criticism or offer to improve, I could ask their permission before doing
so.

## Book overview: Same as ever: A Guide to What Never Changes by Morgan Housel

Regular [book review](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Oo4Br0mbn5U) about
[book](https://www.amazon.com/Same-Ever-Guide-Never-Changes/dp/B0C1HRH2RH/ref=sr_1_1?crid=246NYN20HNQTK&keywords=same+as+ever+morgan+housel&qid=1701629344&sprefix=same+as+ever%2Caps%2C66&sr=8-1)

Here are my takeaways:

1. Punch that killed Houdini. This is where Houdini got kicked in the belly very lightly by the kid
   when he did not expect it, and it kicked an appendix blowup, and in a few days, he died.

> Biggest risk: the thing we did not see coming.

What I can do with this knowledge:

- Invest in unrelated values. **Listen book:
  https://www.amazon.com/Changing-World-Order-Nations-Succeed/dp/B0873ZP8NG/ref=sr_1_4?crid=2D1SEAD1O56NR&keywords=ray+dalio&qid=1701629736&sprefix=ray+dalio+%2Caps%2C77&sr=8-4**
  by Ray Dalio
- Have more cash available at any time.

2. California Superbloom example of getting too much rain will kill plants; dead plants will get
   into the fire, and the territory will have even more damage.

> Too much of a good thing catalyzes a bad thing.

- Jeff Bezos's morning philosophy: _wake up with a startup mentality every morning._
- Seek a new opportunity before you exhaust your current opportunity. Overlap your projects and
  money flow.

3. The world's tallest man. The man was too big, so he could not manage this considerable body.

Going very fast can burn you.

**Fast growth -> Fragility, Slow growth -> durability**

This book is in my audio library already. I will need time to listen to it. LOL =)

## C# lernings

### Lifetimes of C# services for ASP.NET Core apps

- Transient - module on every request will receive a new service instance. Shortlive.

  Example: very to have any use case, but one made a really perfect match is `Randomness.`

- Scoped - the whole app will use the same service instance with a shared state for each new
  request.

  Example: `HTTP client.`

- Singleton - one instance has a single life with a shared state between the whole app for all
  requests.

  Examples: Kafka, redis, and cron job.

## Azure cloud

I am getting to respect MSFT products and software more and more, and I am starting to appreciate
our company's use of Azure Cloud. However, as I get more and more into detail, the Azure cloud has
become more and more complex from the perspective of access management. Learning about only `k8s`
won't be enough to be good at `DevOps` and the cloud. I am shifting my view that I must understand
those concepts for networking, some cloud provider offerings, and access management strategies. Will
see.

## Dealbook summit

I have watched an interview with Elon Musk where he covered all his businesses and his opinion on
multiple topics; this is what I remember because I did not take notes while watching (I should do it
next time):

### X and ADs on the platform

After his post on X that people connected to some political/cultural theme, the platform got some
risks as more companies could stop buying more ads on this platform (Disney company, for example).
Elon said he was not afraid, which would only harm those companies because people would see it. The
reputation of companies that left X would be damaged.

But for me, the main takeaway was that since the whole world started to agree that free model for
software products being fueled by selling users' info does not work for everybody, and with the
concept _Data Dignity_ and paying models, like what X introduced for not seeing ADs.

### Neuralink

Elon shared that his company will start the first real test on people where they ultimately lost
control of some parts of their bodies. He shared that some monkeys in Neuralink's labs play video
games with only mind control. As inspiration, Elon offers to imagine what it would be like if
Stephen Hawking could type faster than any human and how much he could share with us.

### Tesla

The next day after his interview, Tesla scheduled an event to deliver the first set of Cybertrucks,
which happened almost as Elon promised 3 years ago. But they also said that Tesla is a leader in the
world market in selling EVs. I am not sold (I was at some point) on EVs in my current state as good
cars for my family. As a fun toy, yes. But not more than that.

### SpaceX

The main chunk of information was that we must explore other worlds to expand our understanding of
the whole **WORLD**. And this is what is connected to his AI company:

### X.ai

I am still waiting for access to Grok (and ChatGPT, too). But the connection between SpaceX and X.ai
is that we don't know what the meaning of the whole universe is or why we exist. We are still
determining if we are asking the right questions, and those 2 companies can help us understand the
world better and get close to asking the right questions.

## Modeling of the DevOps area

My journey of modeling CI/CD and all that connected to it continuing:

CI is only about automation validation of the code changes, running linter, tests, and preparing
deployable artifacts. Git and its configuration are not included in it. I want to call it GitOps,
but it was already taken for the much more significant concept that covers DevOps, Git, and some
other parts of development.

Based on this, I was also convinced that `git-hooks` do not make much sense since they do not
guarantee to cover part of _CI_, which is challenging to configure.

Also, for E2E testing, if you have _E2E_ tests, you can have a separate repo that could be executed
on some steps on _CD_.
