  
W5-2023
# W52

# Morning star
Emotions:

- Hesitant
- Eager  
    Body: Loose.  
    Card: Justice. 11

# Formula for success

On Monday, I have read on _X_:

> Combination of seeing the problem, wanting to fix it, and knowing enough to be able to execute.

# Idea for Web 101 workshop

At my job, our team organized a boot camp for people to get into web development. It is 3 months long. And right now, we have 2nd cohort doing it. I have been trying to help as much as possible (where it is not harming my daily responsibility). In the first cohort, I helped by mentoring one of the students; the second time, I kept being a mentor. In addition, I talked about pair programming, and by teaming up with another developer from my team, we came up with a small workshop on terminal. The goal is to make them feel more comfortable with what they already do, whereas antigoal is to try not to teach them new objects to keep in their attention.

While we were preparing for it, I realized there are some bases (as gaps) I see in their initial understanding of which program does not have enough time (because the goal of boot camp is to give them practical knowledge, and I am talking about some meta-level understanding). So, literally staying in the shower, I have got an idea about another boot camp lecture to help people build an initial mental model of how web development works in detail so that they will be able to understand where the work that they are going to learn will be in the whole cycle of web development.

It could also be helpful for non-technical (designers or non-technical PMs).

# New version of my "Why."

> To transmute knowledge so everyone can integrate and use it.

As a Christmas present, I bought a course from Simon Sinek on how to be a good presenter: "The Art of Presenting with Simon."

# Gene Keys with Richard Rudd

This week, I decided that I want to learn how to understand the meaning of the profile that you are getting from "methodology" that was created by Richard Rudd: "Gene Keys." based on your time of birth and location, you can learn so much about yourself. And this is what can be an exciting journey for me. Will see how far I can get there.

# DScout

I have never thought that there are different types of user research you can do:

- Generative research. This is where, by talking to people (targeted audience), you learn about their problems and what they would like to fix. How they speak and refer to objects of attention. This is very close to the ontologist's work when that role works on modeling.
- Evaluated research. This "classic" one, in my understanding, is what I was always thinking (referring to) when somebody was saying "user research."

That knowledge was discovered when I learned about the platform _DScout_, which can help you with any research and format you want. Text Q&A, video recording, or even live.

# Roles I am interested in as a participant in the "Forum group."

I have been asked what I am looking for (benefits) if I want to be part of a "forum group."  
**A forum group is a group of 5 to 10 people where you help each other to grow/seek answers to different questions, like buddies. The uniqueness of that format is that usually, those people are not from your surroundings; you group them to have diverse life views and experiences but similar goals and desires.**

I decided to give an answer to roles and their concerns:

## Part of the Listener of Experience

Interests in this role:

- Experience of other participants
    - Questions that participants have and how they will be resolved (personal, family, business)
    - Broaden the worldview of how people live (differently or where everything is the same)
    - Opinions, views (mirroring)

## Role of the Narrator

- The opportunity to share one's experience while having a chance to receive feedback in a safe space
- Experimenting with ideas in a group (bringing them up for consideration)

## Role of the Leader

- The opportunity to facilitate (practice) group calls
- Have support in the possible development of this skill even more (partly the role of the student)

## Role of the Careerist

- Invest in the network for future possible collaborations
- Have knowledge about the Russian market

## Role of the Partner

- Practice the skill of trust
- Practice the skill of active listening

## Role of the Magician/Alchemist

- Inner understanding of oneself with the search for answers to the question, "What does it mean to be a magician and/or an alchemist?"

## Role of the Goal-Achiever

- Set goals with the group
- Achieve goals with the group
- Support others in achieving their goals (part of leadership)

# Thoughts on writing

Since I have joined SSM. One of the primary skills that I have been adopting is notetaking or writing in general.

So, a huge focus has been given to it for 2 reasons:

- We can not remember everything we hear and think about.
- Putting (writing) down your idea/thought is the best validation if it makes sense.

Generally, it is a great start to make a habit of making notes or writing information from your head on paper or screen. But there are different types of activities for writing. Let's think about it in writing.

## Notes

In the core _note_ is a small chunk of information. So there are a few versions you can use for yourself:

- Temporary notes, where any thought, idea, or piece of information you think is essential to keep for future use is put in a quickly accessible place. So, at the end of the day (ideally), you will come back to this note and decide where that note should be put for long storage, but when it is the right time, it will be easy to find or be in the right place already.
- Notes during the meeting. Personal - where if you have a question, you put it down and keep listening for conversation. Otherwise, you will keep it in mind, and your primary focus will be on this question to remember it. At the same time, the conversation continues, and even if the answer is mentioned, you won't be able to hear it.
- Notes from temporary to permanent are sorted by projects or areas you focus on.

## Knowledge base

- Terminology: you should adopt yourself, but there is a chance you can forget it, and if you keep it written in your personal base, you can always search for it, and by doing so, you can trigger in your brain more information on this topic.
- Less obvious part of the base - checklists. Suppose you are doing something multiple times (adding a new concept to your floor, for example). In that case, there are steps you have to take that, based on your experience, will give you the best results. And then you can share it with others.

## Reasoning in writing

I need clarification on this as part of the writing. Where can I put this activity into my workflow? I will keep looking for answers.  
TBD

# MIT professional education

Last summer, I started my journey with MIT professional education programs. My first course was [Leadership for Emerging Leaders](https://professional.mit.edu/course-catalog/engineering-leadership-emerging-leaders). My goal is to get full Certification in Innovation and technology by getting of total 16 days of courses for it (5 already taken with the first course), and I have found a course that I want to take next summer [Design Thinking](https://professional.mit.edu/course-catalog/solving-complex-problems-structured-thinking-design-principles-and-ai) course where modeling knowledge will be the ideal place to use.

# MIT article worth tech in 2023 (failures)

[https://www.technologyreview.com/2023/12/22/1085829/the-worst-technology-failures-of-2023/](https://www.technologyreview.com/2023/12/22/1085829/the-worst-technology-failures-of-2023/)

## Titan submarine as tourism.

3500 meters 5 passendgers  
It could not hold for 400 atmospheres of pressure.  
June 22 connection was lost.

## Lab-grown meat

Company "Upside".  
Raised more than $500m.  
Small plate cost at Muchelin-starred restaurant: $45.

## Cruise robotaxi

GM offered a 24/7 taxi service with 400 cars in San Francisco.  
This October, it was pulled off.

## Plastic proliferation

430 million tons of plastic is created yearly. And only 9% recycled.

## Human AI Pin

Humane AI company.  
Investments of $240 million.  
25 patients filled.

The comment that represents public opinion:

> You have to want to wear the damn thing.

## Social media superconductor

## Rogue geoengineering

# SSM AoEV

I have joined a new effort at school to evangelize a new version of literacy that the school is teaching people. They are looking for volunteers who want to become (or already are) public personas to spread and influence the knowledge. To make education and constant learning (in an optimal way) popular in public opinion.

I am interested in participating in the form of sharing it with an English-speaking audience via platform _X_.

Also, I have spent some time coming up with a name: "Artiel of EduVangelists."

# Happy Holidays

This is my last summary in 2023, and I have an ambition goal for next year:  
Make 52 summary notes. This is basically every week for the whole year without any misses. As POC this year, this is my 6th summary in a row without skipping. So, wish me strong focus and strong composure.

## Merry Christmas

## Happy New Year