# W53

# Adopting the help of LLMs

This week, I have used GPT-4 and GrokAI to help me create posts for _X_ from my weekly notes. It was
an exciting experience, and I will continue to do it.

## How exactly have I done it?

- As usual, I have finalized and published my weekly summary note. Then I fed it to the Grok and GPT
  and asked them to make it friendlier to read as an article from topics and knowledge I got this
  week. After a few iterations, I took the best version and published it already on the freshly
  created Substack platform.
- My next step was to ask both models (so I could select the best version) to write a summary as a
  post on _X_ to invite readers there.
- My last use of LLMs was to create 7 short posts for _X_ based on this text and schedule them to
  post daily.

# Great place to hang with coworkers

Making more connections with teammates so that you have more trust in each other in the future is
crucial in the project work environment. And this is one of my findings this week:
[Audiotuning](https://tt.live) - is a platform where you can be a _DJ_ for the whole party (virtual
and in-real) with the ability to set queue songs.

# Me as a researcher

The role of _researcher_ was at my attention this week from 2 perspectives:

- It was a topic on the SSM course that I am a student.
- Potential activities we can do as a group at AoEV.

The product of research is _an explanation_ of a part of the world.

Before the course, we have already been introduced to similar concepts:

- Description.
- Model.
- Ontology.

The goal that research is trying to achieve is to change _the epistemic status_ of agents.

I have started to look around which topic could be interesting for me enough so I can really put
more effort and time into making this research. Some ideas I have:

- How to do surveys about literacy.
- How many leadership methods, knowledge, and practices do you need to evangelize modern literacy.

# Monitor surprises

Following the topic of _epistemic statuses_ I will look for moments when I am surprised at the
moment, but almost immediately, my mind finds some model that can be used to explain the episode
that made that surprise. It will be hard because that moment is very short, and I should keep it in
my attention to not remember and make a note.

One example I already have: This week, I was in the airport (one of my relatives was flying), and
when we were walking by one of the stations for tickets. I saw a line; however, I did not notice
that line was for tickets. It was unusual, and at first, I felt surprised since it was not usual,
and my 1st brain did not expect to see it. I remember I started searching like in the catalog: "Why
here can there be such a long line?". And then, like in the fitting room, I tried to fit models to
find answers for myself or at least a hypothesis about why.

# More thoughts on Coupling

I watched one of the talks about coupling at the DDD conference. This concept is not new; it was
around in _the 60s_. The understanding of it changed to follow problems and patterns used in
software engineering. Now, people look at Coupling with new perspectives.

# What I am studying at SSM

I have been getting this question multiple times, and I struggle to answer it every time. One reason
is that there is no short answer since it is more than just some practical skill (coding, design, or
even more specific to the coding). Another reason why I still need to have a clear answer to myself.
So I have spent some time thinking about it. Here is _WIP_ version of it.

Core things:

- System thinking. Being able to look at the work from the perspective that everything is a system,
  where a system is some chunk of the world that has some meaning to be separated and has common
  rules and terms. And the ability to have meaningful conversations with people about it.
- I have grown personally from perspective to evolving my intellect. Intellect is the ability to
  solve new problems I have never seen before. Securing my future. Practical skill:
- Thinking in writing.
- Adopting exocortex by having an external memory system with notes, knowledge, and ways to use it.

# AoEV

How can we bring more people's attention to literacy? I can ask LLM models about it. What are people
concerned about, and how do they connect the resolution of those concerns with their investing in
their literacy? I know the answer: **Direct**. But we have to take small(baby) steps.

## There are 3 types of posts:

- motivation
- knowledge
- fun

Based on type, we can get different lengths of posts. Sometimes, one word can change our thoughts,
so motivational posts can be short (should be short). Based on current trends, fun only makes sense
if it is short; we are too lazy to spend much time (because it is not fun) to have fun. Knowledge
depends on the audience, topic, and how well you explain things.

# What does keeping learning and getting better at learning give me?

I understand that all our fears are about the unknown, usually that unknown because it is in the
future. Knowing how to learn, I will be ready for any future (any version of it). So, learning makes
me feel safe and enjoy _the present_ whereas the future only excites me, and I can not wait to see
what will _pleasantly_ surprise me.

# Luxury

Luxury is to be deeply honest with yourself about what you are doing.
