# W1
# New Year!
I have a single personal goal: making 52 weekly notes this year and doing the math... Yes, that means I will have to do notes without any breaks. It will be a stretch for me, but I want to grow!

# Mater of change
I have watched review about [book](https://www.amazon.com/Master-Change-Everything-Changing-Including/dp/B0BSVP2ZDC/ref=sr_1_1?crid=270A3Y8FXH7BU&keywords=master+of+change&qid=1704677664&sprefix=master+of+change%2Caps%2C97&sr=8-1) and here some interesting ideas from it:
- On average, over life, a person experiences 36 major changes.
- You have to learn to accept change because change offers you a choice to change.

## INVEST in your identity.
You should know who you are. So, no matter what, you can have options to make a choice and have what you deserve.

# TidyFirst
The first book from Kent Beck in the last 15 years. He already promised that total he would produce 3 as a full effort.

Since the first book is about the relationship between developers themselves, Kent starts with small quick wins so readers can begin to benefit from the first chapter immediately and now wait to read the whole book. I will be sharing them here as I go over the book.

## Coupling and cohesion
Still, books have some targeted topics to focus on (like theme), and these are *Coupling* and *Cohesion*. Before Kent talked about those topics in previews of this book, I needed to learn how to translate those words into Russian. Will be sharing my more profound understanding of them, but I already got my first version of what 2Cs means:
Coupling - the relationship between 2 *objects* so that when you change the first object, you have to change the second. 
Cohesion is a measure of how close 2 *objects* *physically* are to each other. The nearest *objects* have the stronger cohesion.

## Initial ideas on design

There are 2 types of design:
- Speculative, proactive.
- Reactive, minimal planning ahead.

> The main purpose of design is to support programmers in delivering features that are created for users.

> Value from design comes over time.

## Tidyfirst email subscription
I have also decided to get paid on Kent's page on Substack, where paid users can access all materials that will go into the books. The rat ratio between free and paid materials is 75/25. I want to see if those 25% will benefit me. 

### Thinkies
Thinkies is a section with a set of ideas(techniques) that Kent collected over his career that allowed him to be more creative and how to trigger his brain for more ideas. He said that they will go into the second book. I will share them in a text when the second book is out. 

# SSM 
This week, we spent more time learning about explanations.

> Observation can only be used for something that the agent can observe. Only: I see it. Without a chain of *because of*

> Assumptions. Rules of the world without explanation but required to have a full description.

Practice of creation of explanation:
- Problem statement. 
- List of hypotheses. 
- Arguments before the experiment. *Assume.*
- Experiment. *Observe.*

## Sleep.
We had an extra session (almost 3 hours) related to the Composure part of the course. We reviewed our relationship with sleep and discussed how good sleep impacts everything in your life and how your energy affects your sleep.

I did not learn something really new; it was just a great reminder and time to bring attention to me. And I can (almost declare) that this is my way back into getting back into physical activity; how is it related? If I want to get better at sleep, I must be more active so my rest will be more productive. My action items in sleep:
- Invest time into [book](https://www.amazon.com/Why-We-Sleep-Matthew-Walker-audiobook/dp/B0752XRB5F/ref=sr_1_1?crid=39SUUHY0OLIVT&keywords=why+we+sleep+by+matthew+walker&qid=1704682418&sprefix=why+we+sleep%2Caps%2C97&sr=8-1). 
- And as soon as Oura ring 4 comes (3rd version came 3 years ago, and everywhere rumors that I will be at the beginning of this year). I am getting in for monitoring.

## Longterm planning
Second in 3 days extra (3+ hours) session on long-term planning. This topic was covered from a general view but still had 2 flavors: personal and work. I could not relate much to work, and still, to bring it to work, I want to do it on an individual scale. However, the [book](https://www.amazon.com/Book-TameFlow-Constraints-Knowledge-Work-Management/dp/9995744120/ref=sr_1_1_sspa?crid=7KLJ9DVH50GO&keywords=tameflow&qid=1704683227&sprefix=the+tamefl%2Caps%2C103&sr=8-1-spons&ufe=app_do%3Aamzn1.fos.18630bbb-fcbb-42f8-9767-857e17e03685&sp_csd=d2lkZ2V0TmFtZT1zcF9hdGY&psc=1) that I am planning to read this year will be covering it. But I will share what I took from this call for personal:

Many people are periodically thinking about the future and have minimal skill in long-term planning, giving you a massive advantage in life.

I defined my highest life goal: **I want to keep fulfilling my S1 as long as possible.** It needs to be clearer and explain more about my view of the world. If I go to one level lover, I will say (inspired by Nasim Taleb) - **To protect myself from fear of any kind.**

> Strategy -> Tactic -> Plan.

## Prepare yourself like an Athlete or President
Both of those categories spend years to achieve some great results. Why not do the same long-term plan in other areas? Like a career, for example? I will have to explore that idea more.

## AoEV
My thoughts on the weekly meeting [here](https://systemsworld.club/t/aoev/8637)

# Forum Group
I have been part of the forum group for 2 years, and this is our 3rd restart (nothing wrong with them; it gives a new boost). This time, we will have monthly meetings (so every session will be higher quality). For me, it can be a playground where I can practice my leadership skills; for example, I have offered next time to facilitate a workshop that I have done for Defining You "Why." Only I will have to translate it into Russian.

