# Readwise and Reader from it
Two weeks ago, I was very excited when I found this [[Publish/2024/W08-2024#Obsidian and readwise|tool]], and now I have found the initial flow that should fit my notetaking style. This is where I have defined three types of information that I am saving for the Reader: links for articles that I would like to read but at the moment don't have time for, highlighted text from articles that I was reading, or tweets from X, and links to some things that I am interested in buying (books, office stuff or learning programs and courses). 

Thanks to the browser extension, I can save anything immediately with a single click. Or, with the phone app, I can share it with the Reader as well. After saving it to the Reader app, I can open the desktop app and view everything saved so far. The goal of the review is to clean up the Index folder. Cleanup results can have four outcomes: deleted after review, saved note, or highlighted peace so it can be saved to the obsidian via a plugin that syncs all that I am noting or highlighting, and it can be saved for future reading.

# Cognitive writing
I have joined the beta program for the Cognitive Writing course. This course focuses on helping participants start thinking not just in their heads but also to build a habit of modeling(I still have to understand what it is exactly) and to transfer the process of creativity and reasoning to slower, more thoughtful practice through writing.

My goal for this course: 
- I must better understand and integrate cognitive writing practice into my workflow.
- This course's main object of attention will be a tool called a checklist. I want to understand this tool better and leverage it more, so I want to reason about it during homework for this course.

The result of my first session, which was something like "homework" but more like the practice of "Cognitive thinking," was to move parts of my work on Sunday to the Saturday routine because it started getting more than just my notes summaries. I have decided to review items saved to the Reader, and I will capture some thoughts during the week. I am moving into two days of producing and only five gatherings for learning. This is a great insight. 

## Am I a good typer?
Since 97% of my writing has become digital, I have realized that being able to transfer my thoughts from the brain to the computer has a strong correlation with my speed of typing. I have found [Monkeytype | A minimalistic, customizable typing test](https://monkeytype.com/) platform for testing your typing skills, which is also just a tool for practice. So far, with words, numbers, and punctuation, my average speed is 50+ WPM (words per minute). I have set a daily practice for Duolingo for 15 minutes and am adding typing practice for 10 minutes. 

# Testing
Since I am still procrastinating about my talk/presentation, "Unit testing," I am trying to put my brain into this environment so that I cannot not doing this. I have tried to watch the FM( frontend masters)  workshop about testing (which I was not impressed from perspective of the foundational ideas of the presenter) and a few good ideas I still found useful to reason about:
- Set up your testing environment to make it easier than running the whole application.
- Being good at some programming language does not mean you are good at testing. Testing skills are language agnostic.

In addition, watch another interview with Kent Beck, which was similar to others (which is good; repetition with good ideas makes them stick better in your head). However, I have found one new idea I had not thought about before: Kent said TDD introduces the idea that developers become responsible for the software quality they write.

# Keyboard #keyboard
I have to start tagging my exploration of keyboards, which I have become interested in recently. This week, I have learned more about parts of mechanical keyboards that I have to think about if I want to build a custom one:
- Layout. The size that I want is 60%, which is 4 rows (from the left, each row starts with Tab, Caps, Shift, and Control), with no even navigation arrows. For layout, you have to choose the sounds of keys, which are key switches; they can be linear, tactile, and clicky. So far, my choice is linear.
- Sound. I want to get close to *Thoch*, which is very soft.
- PCB. The brain of the keyboard, where you put keys, ensures it is hot-swappable.
- Foam. The material will be put between the PCB and the bottom of the case. Choice: poliforbinar.
Stabilizers are another part of making the keyboard sound you want. You use them as additional support for wider keys.
- And, of course, the case. It should be first on the list, but I will keep it here. But what makes a good-quality keyboard is a heavy case—just peak aluminum.

# Frontrunners
This was my first local programming conference in the DC area; I had a great time! It was just one day, and it was enough, I will come again 100%. Wanna share some insights I have taken to myself from that day:
## Scaling of the software project. Talk from **Brian Childress**
Scaling can be three types:
- Scaling users. This is where we discuss increasing traffic performance code and autoscaling the `k8s` clusters. Nothing new.
- Scaling of features that software product offering. We are discussing whether we can keep the same velocity as time passes. After a year or two, it becomes impossible to deliver new features because of poor system design or code quality. This is where the importance of testing and design decisions becomes crucial.
- Can the system grow as it adds more users and features and keeps onboarding new developers? This is a scaling question as well! I did not think about it before. We keep using the "pizza size team," where you can buy pizza and feed the whole team, with a maximum of 8 pieces. But what do you do when a single pizza is not enough? We start to split team into 2 smaller team and keep doing this. But will the project and codebase be able to support this? I never thought about it. 
## OpenTelemetry. Talk from **Jessica Kerr** 
**Telemetry** - data that the system shares with other parts itself.

**Instrumentation** - code that emits telemetry data.

[OpenTelemetry in Practice – For people who benefit from OpenTelemetry and observability.](https://otelinpractice.net)

It is like [Overview - FHIR v5.0.0](https://www.hl7.org/fhir/overview.html) for Interoperability in healthcare but for observability in monitoring to be cloud agnostic. Good thing I already preordered [Fluent Bit with Kubernetes](https://www.manning.com/books/fluent-bit-with-kubernetes) without not knowing about it. LOL.

## Migration with the help of tests by using Playwright.
There was a talk about how a static blog with about 1000 articles that was based on [Jekyll • Simple, blog-aware, static sites | Transform your plain text into static websites and blogs](https://jekyllrb.com/) had to be migrated to SSR(server-side rendering) version of Next.js and as main validator was used E2E testing tool [Fast and reliable end-to-end testing for modern web apps | Playwright](https://playwright.dev/).  There were some potentially useful tips, but they were not the main insight/peace that I found interesting. An interesting point was that the speaker loves to work on migration projects or projects that need to refactor old code bases. There is also a conference for people like him: [MenderCon 2024](https://mendercon.com/). 
> Definition of "Mender" - *a skilled worker who mends or repairs things*. From a software perspective, it will be the person who loves to work with legacy codebase. 

## DevTools
An inspirational talk from Alec Barret, who works at DataDog, was very inspiring. I immediately got an idea of what I could do in my current work position to have a similar story to share with people.

Also, Alec shared his table on how to decide if it is worth building a tool by investing time: [xkcd: Is It Worth the Time?](https://xkcd.com/1205/), for example, are you planning to automate some routine that is being used once a day and it takes to do manually 5 seconds - you can spend 12 hours building this.

# New section: Wishlist
Introducing a new section for my public pages: **Wishlist**. I will have a page I can share with my relatives and friends who want to buy me a present, and I can make their lives easier by sharing my wishlist with them. I will link to the Amazon wishlist; it will be an updated weekly page for places that are not Amazon.

# Highlights of the week
- [[Publish/2024/Staying Technical|Staying Technical]]