# Attention to selfmanagement
My attention this week has been dedicated to the method of Cognitive writing. I will share some results later in this text, but because of that, I have also audited (again) my time management and how I am doing. The results were different from how I wanted them to be. I just fell apart. I do not even want to tell you how bad it became. I came back to another test. I do not have time to model it yet, but I will do it in the next nine weeks. I promise! The only thing I can do is run another test quickly; I don't have logical reasons (only my opinion) that the new way could work. So this is what I have tried to change: Calendar with Email. Yes, again! But what gave me hope this time is that the Proton mail I want to test again got a desktop application. Ok, ok, here is what I have got as a testing state:
- Proton email is primary.
- Gmail and Outlook synced with Proton and forwarded all emails to Proton.
- Calendar same. 
- Work will be managed separately. But I will forward events that overlap with work.

# Hachathon
I have been at an offline hackathon once and three times online. It has always been fun and a chance to do something completely new and "YOLO." But how should you think about it if you want to do it? Or put again yourself into the skin of the participant. What first do you think about what makes you excited? Or what was your first point about? Please make sure it is not gonna happen. Also, if you still need to organize yourself, why is the hackathon organized in the first place?

# Cognitive writing. 2nd.
This week, we passed another cognitive writing lesson. We have been talking about Cognitive writing as a "Method," a concept from the "System Thinking" subject. This is part of the second semester from SSS, which also started for me this week! You have to draw two conclusions from this information: I will be talking about system thinking more, and I will have to do homework in Russian. The first homework made me describe my current method of cognitive writing; you can only improve if you have what you will be comparing enchantment to. Here is a link to the school forum [post](https://systemsworld.club/t/opisanie-moego-nyneshnego-metoda-myshleniya-pismom/10750). I should add a new section to my substack for translation for my Russian publications.

## Products/artifacts from cognitive writing
Another new idea is something I already knew but did not apply to something outside of my programming practice - iterations. Refrain from trying to make a perfect product from cognitive writing. Start with a small MVP to start getting feedback and iterate. This relates to my strong desire to make a talk about Unit tests, and I have been talking (only talking that I want to do it, not talking as a talk) for multiple months already but have yet to get to the first iteration. Preparation for the talk is to prepare some versions of slides and notes that will help me stay on track with the knowledge that I have. My problem was that I wanted, I was thinking, that my talk would teach the audience everything I know about unit testing, and I needed a lot of time for an hour or more! Where I need to start is a dozen slides and one person to start iterating over it. My goal this week is to discuss that topic. I will keep you updated.

# Git, again
I have already covered `git` in [[Publish/2024/W08-2024#Git|W08-2024]], and this time, it is just [second part ](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Md44rcw13k4)from Scott. Here are my few takes:
- [pre-commit](https://pre-commit.com/) is a great tool for managing git hooks.
- The `git work trees` feature allows you to have two parallel "work in progress" without `stash,` work streams.

