# Public speaking - slides

I have been procrastinating on talking about unit testing for half a year, but this week, I finally
got enough motivation/agency to make the first iteration of my slides so I can start my tryouts with
colleagues. I am not a "PowerPoint" guy, and I love Markdown. I have found a nice tool for me to
keep using Obsidian as editor for my slides. Obsidian has great tooling for preview markdown syntax
for slides and on top I have used
[GitHub - marp-team/marp: The entrance repository of Markdown presentation ecosystem](https://github.com/marp-team/marp)
for making real slides in PDF format with
[GitHub - marp-team/marp-cli: A CLI interface for Marp and Marpit based converters](https://github.com/marp-team/marp-cli).

# Cognitive writing

Because of a cognitive writing class, I was motivated to make slides for unit testing. This week,
here are few new insights that I want to adopt in my work immediately:

- I should version each iteration over note/writing material, like in software.
- On reflection writing, highlight what gives a better return on time/energy invested. Combining it
  with versioning makes it easy to see when and what I should keep doing or what to drop.

# System thinking

Learning about system thinking and how to use it is an eye-opening experience for me! Here is one of
the thoughts that I have realized already that shift my world-view: "It is better (when it is true,
of course) understand/"have awareness" that this is best version of discription of the system based
on what we know about this system right now. Than to say that this is 100% correct description about
system."

# Cool stuff

- Haskell conf, youtube playlist of talks:
  [Fetching Title#nr60](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uTltUa4UOi8&list=PLyrlk8Xaylp4yIhLI41NHVSovgyYw9pII&index=2)
