# P framework
[AWS re:Invent 2023 - Gain confidence in system correctness & resilience with formal methods (ARC315) - YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FdXZXnkMDxs)
Part of my learning System Thinking involves methods we use to do any "job" to get results. Those methods are "wheels" that humanity has developed so that we don't reinvent the wheel every time. In a talk from "re:invent 2023," the presenter introduced the same meaning term "formal methods." Keeping it in mind, I recommend watching.

## Book: [Deep Work: Rules for Focused Success in a Distracted World : Cal Newport, Jeff Bottoms, Hachette](https://www.amazon.com/Deep-Work-Cal-Newport-audiobook/dp/B0189PVAWY/ref=sr_1_1?crid=1USA9DSOXXPOS&dib=eyJ2IjoiMSJ9.ZU4VTSenX12Bm-lCpPgA1kuFu6EjjnTqULvBDYykS2YTkRN7WckOty2O5_7ruIo6O_g6mxQhPQ46H-hQKopMCP6hhoebQT2GZBq4uizK2My22bff1rf1h3RqhpgiRZWcrgWUz5f13SurKSYQHhcHa0v2qeKPfIZ2L3LD0r1PfQ5JlDctvibVbYAEy7xGM8tBCjRvQ81-v6ur35n45GTlrg-st3rYk1KXODcp4OwmxZc.hvze85qo2QUDgvjZHWffhx1kv7GWV6jrUYub1XCVGnM&dib_tag=se&keywords=deep+work+book&qid=1713185974&sprefix=deep+work+book%2Caps%2C114&sr=8-1)
I have had this book for a while but never had a chance to read it; this is because of insufficient information to motivate me to read it. Why did I get this book in the first place? It was a moment of excitement in the bookstore; I liked the cover very much. Thanks to my bi-weekly subscription with book reviews. This time, it was this book. Here are some notes:
1. Schedule distractions. Where you put yourself in time to focus and plague off yourself from the digital world.
2. Deep work Ritual.  It would be best if you had some ritual to get into the deep work mode.
3. Evening Shutdown. or Stand down.
	1. Unfinished task
	2. Action tasks

> Today, I shall inspire greatness.
- Consistency
- Courage

# SS&M
I have a separate folder for notes from my current course on system thinking. However, this is one of the main checklists I want to be here in case I want to refer to it later. This checklist is the "mantra of system thinking":
- What needs to be changed in the environment of the system of interest?
- Which way/method are we changing the system's environment of interest?
- What is the role of the system of interest? **The role of the system of interest is only here!**
- What are we going to use to create a system of interest?
- Which work methods will we use to create a system of interest?
- What is the role of the creator?
- Who/what will be a creator?

## Analytic vs Engineer
Why do we have to compare those two roles? Both roles are interested in the same systems, metrics, and changes. However, the difference that makes a huge difference is that analytics does not make any decisions, only summaries and maybe some recommendations. Engineers change the physical world, and they must bet their skin (take risks). The engineer will have to do an analysis and then make a decision. I want to be in the role of engineer.

## Interests of architect - ISO 42010:2022
suitability of the architecture for achieving the objectives for the entity of interest, enterprise capability and capacity to implement the entity of interest, the feasibility of realizing and operating the entity of interest, the potential risks and impacts of the entity of interest to its stakeholders throughout its life cycle, added value to the stakeholder(s), reuse of known architectures, resilience, extensibility, adaptability, latency, resource utilization, effectiveness, operability, usefulness, usability, interoperability, complexity, sustainability and evolvability of the entity of interest, environmental impacts of the development, use, and disposal of the entity of interest 
