# Julia - programming language

You may have encountered Julia as a programming language, but have you truly explored its potential?
Here's a quick intro(10mins) that could open up a world of possibilities: A programming language to
heal the planet together: Julia | Alan Edelman | TEDxMIT - YouTube

It promises to help humans communicate their intentions through the code to computers and humans. It
claims that it is as easy to read as `Python` but without losing any performance like in `C.`

If someone will want to dive deeper, here is an MIT course(from 2021):
[Course Materials | Introduction to Computational Thinking | Mathematics | MIT OpenCourseWare](https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/18-s191-introduction-to-computational-thinking-fall-2020/pages/course-materials/)

# Identify key events. Checklist for full kitting.

## Identifying key events by classes

## Describing favorable outcome of key event and model (if necessary)

## Describe how to prepare for key events. What needs to be done/prepared upfront so an event will be successful?

## Describe jobs by methods of roles for prep and during meetings.

## Identify collections/kits/sets/releases that will allow you to achieve the desired goal.

## Try to guess/hypothesize how much time each object from the previous question will be needed.

## Spread jobs over weeks.

## Monitor progress and adjust.

# SSM 8th conference 2024.

I will cover later (after watching all the talks in the recordings) which talks I have enjoyed the
most, and for now, one exciting highlight for me that I have taken from it outside the talks: how
strongly negative school opinion about theories that are trying to describe the behavior of the
systems on the level of society. It isn't brilliant to think about people in the society/system as
predictable systems. You will try to change your behavior as soon as you identify that you have been
monitored.
