# Does your team have a calendar with events?
I am not talking about the calendar. I am referring to some `timeline`s so you can see how far you are from something that can help you make the same decision, especially on the engineering side. Imagine you are working on some technical task. And now you are facing a choice: invest in a long-term solution where your team can benefit for some time, or `red-tape` it and go with your life? The best engineering answer will be: "It depends." Ok, it depends on what. And here comes our friend's `timeline` to play. You can go there and check if you have some time ahead to invest time. Or there may be a showcase that this feature needs to be completed sooner than you plan to invest. If you don't have time, talk to your teammates.

What does `asynchronous` mean?
Here are some answers from Twitter:
- There is a difference between sending an email and having a phone call. (async assumed slower, which is not the case)
- https://www.reactivemanifesto.org attempts to define sync and async.
> Request processing occurs at an arbitrary time, sometime after it has been transmitted from client to server. 
> Clients only resume their execution once the service has processed the request.
- TCP connection is open for the duration of a communication. - I assume you're nonblocking for a response.
- Waiting service does not wait for completion of the receiving service.

# Technical leadership

I have yet to hear about this concept, but it hit me! That makes sense! Without it, you can have a great team that enjoys working together and wants to get things done. Also, a leader will hope that a team member will take action and think about technical excellence. This is just letting someone step up! Well, it would make sense if that leader would make some checks and preparations to ensure someone can step up or create an environment for someone to become that person. 

Here is a talk that a little bit covers it: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zApoyqJPv64

It also introduces an exciting framework for teams without having a technical leader - a decision-maker tool: https://adr.github.io/

It answers the question: How much is enough for architecture upfront? - As long as you can answer those two questions with your architecture:
1. Is that what we're going to build?
2. Is it going to work?


