# Obsidian
The results of an experiment that I have done this week (using Obsidian and comparing it with Inkdrop) would not change my mind about fully migrating to Obsidian. I already have 2 reasons (without the results of my experiment):
- [Inkdrop increasing price](https://forum.inkdrop.app/t/inkdrop-price-change/4366) 
- I have already got a Sync and Publish subscription for Obsidian. (I have ontological chattering here).

Here are my results:

Cons:
- The capabilities of Obsidian to customize are endless. It is very dangerous for my curiosity. 
- I have to learn some new key bindings.
Pros:
- Daily notes template, in general, easy support for templates.
- Links back and forth.
- Publish has better functionality.
- Multi-vault support.

I will need to schedule time for myself for migration.

# DNS

After my DNS course, my coworker and I spent three days researching networking in general. I took our current work for our learning case: a project on the Azure cloud. Here are some takeaways:
* Tools to adopt strongly into daily work:
- `dig`
- `kubectl`
* New concepts:
 - CIDR notation.

# Usanov, Money Flow (continue) #project

I will be following this course as a project type for myself, which means I will need to have a product (artifact) from my project. This week's main takeaway is that the economy is a multi-subject subject.

# Ontology next level
On the final exam, I realized that I was missing the whole model of ontology with all the main objects of attention, so even when I could Identify chattering, I did not have enough practice to explain it using ontology terminology.  And that is why I plan to improve at explaining communication/explanation problems as the next step.

# #idea
The project for the portfolio is a service for shortening links to share. Then, it can grow into an extension for a browser and/or native app... 

# [Zed editor](https://zed.dev/)
By creators of Atom.

I heard about it about a half-year ago and now is the time. The main question for a tool like this is how it will work at Humana.  I want to see if it will increase the quality of collaboration in remote worlds.

# DDD with Scott
The best description of any model is better done with text vs. diagram. But as just plain English, it was not clear for everybody to understand. What if it is almost like English but already a programming language? This can be done by using `F#`.

## Iterate
When we iterate, what is our cycle?  For example, we should focus on each `hypothesis` where we want to create new functionality behavior. VS If we replicate the same behavior for technology updates, then does it make sense to do that modeling? 

## [The C4 model for visualising software architecture](https://c4model.com)

- [Youtube presentation ](https://youtu.be/x2-rSnhpw0g) 

- System context: The top level represents the entire system.
- Containers, microservices (DB, queue ... ).
- Structural building block - component.
- Module.

#  long post on X
[X](https://x.com/andrewyng/status/1750985019789873244?s=46) - this is an example of long post on X, since I have been exploring if I need to use other platform (like Substack) for posting.

# Arc + perplexity
I was already using perplexity, but I wanted to see how it would work for me if it were my default search; I did not spend time finding a way to make it since it was not straightforward by default. So I was waiting. It finally became real; the first browser that integrated the ability to make perplexity a default search was Arc browser. I will use this pair for testing at my laptop.

# I know I will need it in the future
Have you ever been in a position where you have peace of information that you know you will need in the future, but now it is not helpful information and keeping it in you [working-memory](https://secondfile.substack.com/p/human-memory-is-not-made-of-bits?r=yo8ni&utm_campaign=post&utm_medium=web)? This is where I need some method to store it for my future and be able to find it and expect that I could have saved something for myself. 

This time I want to keep link for course that I want to take at MIT this summer:  [How do you solve important, large-scale challenges with evolving and contradictory constraints? | Professional Education](https://professional.mit.edu/course-catalog/solving-complex-problems-structured-thinking-design-principles-and-ai)


# #Random
[Beautiful code animations - AnimateCode](https://www.animate-code.com/)
[SpeedTyper.dev | Typing practice for programmers](https://www.speedtyper.dev/)
