# Obsidian and other organizational activities
Going into Obsidian adoption, I knew that I could get sucked in by the options that it offers users to customize. This week, I have been hooked up more than my usual involvement. However, it was helpful for me to get more centralized on resources that I want to put on hold and come back to process them later. My problem was that I had three primary tools to keep my working flow in some form: obsidian, "Focus To Do," and calendar(calendar, another story). The current issue concerns how I use "Focus To Do," a timer for Pomodoros, and a list of the projects I want to spend time on. When you start putting some titles for tasks at "Focus To Do," you also want to add some links to the material, and this is where the fun begins. I have also been trying to have a similar model at Obsidian to keep some links or ideas that I am getting while writing so I can come back later and not lose/forget them. I decided to give priority to Obsidian and find a way to have an easy way to:
- Create 'tasks' on the flight with the "Tasks" plugin, and I will remember. I added a plugin to create tasks to the daily note template query that will take all tasks created before today and still need to be done.
- Have a home page list of links for materials I want to observe.
- TBD... how to stop getting new materials before old ones are not consumed.
## Obsidian at work
I have finally got obsidian at work and started to use it. I did not connect to personal; I have created a new account, so there are not any questions from security. But I still want to find a way to share it. The main benefit is that I can use VIM motions for note-taking. 
## Calendar adventure
As I mentioned before, I also had some fun with the calendar. Now I have five emails (which is five calendars)... I know... I need to be more smart. Let me explain. One of them is for work(Outlook), the second is the one I had since I came to us(Gmail), and the other three personal (Proton Mail, Outlook, and iCloud) I created last year trying to find the right email client. For the last few months, my primary email was Outlook (personal one), but I did not like Outlook client as my primary client. Last week, I decided to give iCloud a try. I will keep you updated here.
# Polypane - browser for frontend developers.
#tools
[Polypane, The browser for ambitious web developers](https://polypane.app/)
> Build better websites in less time with a stand-alone browser that makes your site more responsive, accessible, and performant. Save hours on each project, and love every minute of it.

This week, I discovered an interesting tool for front-end engineers. I did not try it since it has only a paid version, but it is still worth mentioning.
# AoEV
Our weekly call discussed the importance of easy-to-consume information, and that's why it is better to start from video/audio formats to increase motivation for people to read text. 
## Practice by talking
It is not a revolutionary statement, but you much better remember and understand any topic if you read it and try to discuss it. People want to have a place and a chance to communicate with each other. So there is a desire in our group to help with this. A few groups are already trying to go together as self-organized through some courses at SSM, but problems start to occur after a few weeks. And this is what a lot of educational organizations still need to include. It is hard to create an environment for people to stick to a long-running program to get to the end. I was thinking about which short format would be useful. A few weeks ago, I participated in a similar format: [Open table](https://publish.obsidian.md/secondlife/ZET/Sumaries/W5-2024#Open+table). 

